New Docs Content: Button alignment, order, and grouping (#1092)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/patterns/button-alignment/partials/overview/overview.md

While the alignment, order, and grouping of buttons and actions might seem trivial, the impact on users is immediate and often occurs in experiences of high important and interruption.

These guidelines don't cover every scenario and are intended to aid in the decision-making process when determining how to organize buttons and actions. Different methods of alignment and ordering will result in different outcomes with pros and cons for each. What is most important is **consistency** across an application in how actions are aligned, ordered and grouped.

!!! Info

> Button alignment isn't relevant for every component or pattern, but is rather aimed at functional elements; i.e. a modal, forms, and page-level actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Button alignment isn't relevant for every component or pattern, but is rather aimed at functional elements; i.e. modals, forms, and page-level actions.
```

Suggestion: pluralize modal for consistency with the other items in the group.

- Information of lesser importance should be concise, potentially bulletted, and aligned to the left hand side of the page, pattern, or component.
- This layout assumes users only scan content, rather than reading word-for-word.

### Reading patterns in practice

All three of these reading patterns are relevant and useful when observed in isolation, however, the reality of how users read, consume, and comprehend content is likely a combination of multiple reading patterns that change and overlap depending on the context. With that in mind, understanding these patterns and how they are relevant to different types of UX content will help to produce the best experience.

## Key concepts

- No one layout or reading pattern is perfect, users will generally shift between different patterns depending on the content.
- Adherence to specific reading pattern **is not** an excuse for lack of hierarchy within a layout.
    - Introducing hierarchical focal points using typography and color in tandem with reading patterns is often the most effective method to communicate the purpose and function of a layout, pattern, or component.
- There is a fair amount of overlap between each pattern.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> While the alignment, order, and grouping of buttons and actions might seem trivial, the impact on users is immediate and often occurs in experiences of high important and interruption.

Reviewer 2: Nit: This sentence seems a bit hard to parse. Are there ways it could be broken up or clarified?

> These guidelines don't cover every scenario and are intended to aid in the decision-making process when determining how to organize buttons and actions. Different methods of alignment and ordering will result in different outcomes with pros and cons for each. What is most important is **consistency** across an application in how actions are aligned, ordered and grouped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While these guidelines don’t cover every scenario, they are intended to aid in the decision-making process when determining how to organize buttons and actions. Different methods of alignment and ordering will result in different outcomes with pros and cons for each. What is most important is **consistency** across an application in how actions are aligned, ordered, and grouped.
```

!!! Info

> Button alignment isn't relevant for every component or pattern, but is rather aimed at functional elements; i.e. modals, forms, and page-level actions.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this is helpful information? Questions of buttons alignment would naturally only apply to cases in which you need to use buttons.

!!!

## Constrained vs. unconstrained

**Constrained** refers to a component or pattern that is wrapped within a container element, while **unconstrained** refers to components that exist at the page level.

- **Constrained**
    - Dialogs and modals
    - Toolbars
    - Alerts
    - Banners
- **Unconstrained**
    - General page content
    - In-page forms
    - The "window" in a general sense

This differentiation is important because the expectations from the user are different in each context. A constrained component or pattern will often be used in an interstitial or circumstantial experience; i.e. an experience that is triggered by the user or the application illiciting a quick, progressive action.

> Unconstrained generally refers to a more "static" experience that isn't triggered by a user action. This is often tied to a page-level function or a navigational element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unconstrained generally refers to a more "static" experience that isn’t triggered by a user action. This is often tied to a page-level function or a navigational element.
```

> **Insert some supporting images here**

Reviewer 2: For a note like this, you could put a TODO comment instead so that it wouldn't be visible to people visiting the site in case it gets committed.

## Layout and reading patterns

> When users read content, the pattern their eyes follow generally adheres to one or more reading pattern. By identifying and familiarizing ourselves  with these patterns we can better understand how the layout within our application, pattern, or component impacts comprehension and interpretation of the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When users read content, the pattern their eyes follow generally adheres to one or more reading patterns. By identifying and familiarizing ourselves with these patterns we can better understand how the layout within our application, pattern, or component impacts comprehension and interpretation of the content.
```

The three most common reading patterns are:

- the Gutenberg diagram
- Z-shaped pattern
- F-shaped pattern

### Gutenberg diagram

The Gutenberg diagram refers to a pattern the eyes follow when moving or scanning through **evenly distributed, homogenous content.** This pattern is most relevant in text-heavy scenarios like novels and newspapers, but is relevant in a UX context depending on the complexity of the content.

![Visual example of a Gutenberg diagram](/assets/patterns/button-alignment/gutenberg-diagram.png)

#### Characteristics

- The users eyes progress through the content on an **axis of orientation** which moves further away from the start edge on each line or break in the content

> - Content that falls into the weak fallow area recieves less attention

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Content that falls into the weak fallow area receives less attention
```

Author: That's a good point, I don't think it's an often used word, but it's supported by the graphic. That's generally the language that is used when referring to this specific reading pattern.

- This pattern indicates that important content and elements should be placed upon the **reading gravity path**
- This pattern is most prevalent in content with little to no typographic hierarchy (i.e. long-form paragraphs)
- This pattern is considered "in harmony" with natural reading direction

### Z-shaped pattern

A Z-shaped pattern refers to a pattern that follows the shape of the letter Z:

> 1. The users eyes start in the top left and move horizontally to the right

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The user’s eyes start in the top left and move horizontally to the right
```

2. Upon reaching the end (or terminal) of the line, the eyes move diagonally to the next line

> 3. The readers eyes end at the bottom right of the content

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The reader’s eyes end at the bottom right of the content
```

![Visual example of a Z-shaped pattern](/assets/patterns/button-alignment/z-shaped-pattern.png)

#### Characteristics

> - There are _technically_ no fallow areas (areas that recieve less attention or lack comprehension) as in the Gutenberg pattern, though this is not always the case in practice.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this definition of "fallow" could be referenced where it's used above too if you keep the term there.

> - There are _technically_ no fallow areas (areas that recieve less attention or lack comprehension) as in the Gutenberg pattern, though this is not always the case in practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There are _technically_ no fallow areas (areas that receive less attention or lack comprehension) as in the Gutenberg pattern, though this is not always the case in practice.
```

- This type of pattern is most prevalent in task-based functions or sequences of elements; i.e. a form or series of onboarding steps.
- This pattern assumes that users read through _all_ of the content sequentially.

### F-shaped pattern

An F-shaped pattern loosely follows the shape of the letter F, first identified through eye-tracking and heatmap studies by the [Neilsen/Norman Group](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/f-shaped-pattern-reading-web-content-discovered/).

![Visual example of an F-shaped pattern](/assets/patterns/button-alignment/f-shaped-pattern.png)

> **We probably can't use this image directly on our webiste :(**

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should remove it to be safe? I think as long as we link to the page on their site which explains this pattern then that's probably fine. (Or we could make our own image somehow.)

> **We probably can't use this image directly on our webiste :(**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**We probably can’t use this image directly on our website :(**
```

![An example of eye tracking and heatmaps from the NN/group](/assets/patterns/button-alignment/f-shaped-pattern-nn-group.jpeg)

#### Characteristics

> The F-shaped pattern is a prominent example of how users scan through content and how most users don't read content completely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The F-shaped pattern is a prominent example of how users scan through content and how most users don’t read content completely.
```

- Information at the top will generally have increased comprehension compared to information further down the page.
    - This is anecdotally true for all reading and layout patterns, but is best captured in a heatmap analysis.
- Information of lesser importance should be concise, potentially bulletted, and aligned to the left hand side of the page, pattern, or component.
- This layout assumes users only scan content, rather than reading word-for-word.

### Reading patterns in practice

All three of these reading patterns are relevant and useful when observed in isolation, however, the reality of how users read, consume, and comprehend content is likely a combination of multiple reading patterns that change and overlap depending on the context. With that in mind, understanding these patterns and how they are relevant to different types of UX content will help to produce the best experience.

## Key concepts

> - No one layout or reading pattern is perfect, users will generally shift between different patterns depending on the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- No particular layout or reading pattern is perfect, users will generally shift between different patterns depending on the content.
```

Reviewer 2: "one" doesn't seem quite clear here although there are other word choices than I suggested if you think there's a better option.

#### Characteristics

- The users eyes progress through the content on an **axis of orientation** which moves further away from the start edge on each line or break in the content

> - Content falls into strong and weak _fallow areas_ where it receives elss attention and lacks comprehension compared to content along the axis of orientation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Content falls into strong and weak _fallow areas_ where it receives less attention and lacks comprehension compared to content along the axis of orientation
```
